Good morning.
Let's take our Bibles this morning and we're going to
get into Psalm 23 and look at just verse 1.
Before we do that, I just want to have a time of prayer.
Bill Gurney is the owner of this building.
A tremendous man of God loves Jesus.
He and I are getting to know each other more and more.
He stopped in yesterday and he loves all of the changes.
I don't know if you noticed the changes in the entryway and also the coffee station.
So he came in and took a peek.
He was here doing some other things and he was just excited about what was going on here in our church.
this campus.
But he did mention that his wife who had been battling cancer is having a resurgence of it, a struggle with it.
I said, do you mind if I bring that to the church to pray?
And he's like, absolutely.
He's such a prayer warrior.
So remember Bill Gurney and his wife in prayer.
We're going to pray for them.
We're also going to have some prayer here, too, about people who might have a physical affliction.
You might have something going on in your world.
that's manifesting in the physical dimension.
And so we want to pray for you too.
But before we do even that, so think about that if that is you.
So something physical going on with you.
We need some encouragement.
Does anybody need encouragement today?
Are you a good encourager?
I hope that you are.
We're supposed to encourage one another.
That's part of being in a fellowship or a community of believers.
And so here's what I want you to do.
I want you to think about something very, very encouraging to say to someone else.
Okay, some of you are processors like me, so it'll take me about a week to think of something.
We don't have a whole week.
We have a couple of moments here.
So think about something that you can encourage.
It could be just one word.
It could be a little phrase.
It could be a thought and a Bible verse.
What is that that might be coming to your mind?
Are you getting something?
Raise your hand if you're getting something.
Think of something, think of something.
Okay, whatever the Lord is giving you, because that's from the Lord, you know that, right?
Say it to the person near you.
You're saying, I don't know who that is.
Say it to them anyway.
Go ahead, just say it to them.
Lean over, lean back, turn around, whatever it may be.
And just speak that word of life into them.
Bring that encouragement to them.
People need encouragement.
Don't make fun of the person, actually, that's not the point of this.
Don't tell them they don't match or whatever.
This is supposed to be encouragement.
You see, when the church gets together, there's a lot of times where you sit in the chair, look at the person's back of their head, and there's no interaction.
The body is supposed to come together.
This is what they did in the early church, and we're losing some of that.
So that's why I like to try to encourage and even motivate for us to act a little bit differently than
what might be happening in the modern church, because there's some great things happening in the modern church, but there's some things that need some adjustments and some reform, and some of that is the way we interact.
And so, Holy Spirit might give you something to say to somebody else by the end of our service together, and I would encourage you to go up to them, even if you might not know them.
And there's always a risk with a lot of that, because some people think they need to be the church police, and that's not what I'm saying.
It's not our business really to do a lot of that, but it is our business to encourage one another.
And so if you get something from the Holy Spirit, let somebody know.
Don't leave without telling them.
I remember years ago, the Lord gave me a word.
I wasn't a pastor at the time and I was going to a church and just helping out where I could and things like that.
And the Holy Spirit gave me a word and I said, I don't know if I can say that.
I didn't even know if I wanna say that.
I mean, my life feels pretty crummy right now.
Who am I to say something to somebody else?
And I went and the Holy Spirit was so prompting me that I did go up to this gentleman and I said what the Lord gave me and it just brought tears to his eyes.
You could tell it was a Holy Ghost moment.
You could tell that God was in it.
Let's be open to the move of God like that.
Amen?
Let's do that together.
All right, so who has a physical, something that's going on in your world?
Raise your hand.
something that's afflicting you physically.
Thank you, thank you, thank you, thank you.
Can we put a hand on there?
And if you want to get up out of your chair and go lay hands on them, that's certainly okay.
Lift your hand again, don't be nervous, don't be shy.
If you could, could you start moving and putting some hands over here, over there on the, there's third people.
Thank you, anybody over here?
Need room for something physical.
All right, remember Bill Gurney's wife who's struggling with cancer.
Let's do that.
Jesus, you're the healer.
You are the God who is the God of all comfort.
And you know exactly what you're doing with our lives.
And I don't understand all of why you allow certain things to happen in the area of physical afflictions, whether it be diagnoses or whatever it may be.
It could be very severe.
It could be minor.
Nothing is to be beyond your touch.
Even a prayer to you.
Some people are thinking, oh, it's just so small.
It's so small.
No, it's not small.
It's something that you want us to bring to you.
And so we bring it to you, Lord.
that you would heal, that you would do an amazing work, even now as we're laying hands on and praying for each other, Lord, would you do something that would only be attributed to a move of your spirit, that would only be attributed to a work of God in response to prayer.
And so, Lord, we pray for these people that lift up their hands.
This is what you do, Lord, you save people from their sins, but you also heal bodies, you heal minds, you heal emotions, you heal relationships,
And so we bring all of that to you.
Bill Gurney, Lord, asking for prayer for his dear wife going through this battle again.
And their whole family, God, would you just show up in power?
Would you do something that, again, can only be attributed to you?
He trusts you, Lord.
They all do.
They believe in you.
They trust you.
We cover them in prayer.
For pieces of past is understanding that you would be the comfort that they need, the presence of God.
So real to them in the midst of this struggle.
Yes, Lord.
Help us to understand Psalm 23, verse one, Holy Spirit.
You wrote it through David and help us to apply it and experience it in Jesus' mighty name.
And God's people say, amen.
All right, let's open God's word together.
This is a series we're titling, experiencing Psalm 23.
And I don't have to tell you that all of life is full of a myriad of experiences, a lot of emotion.
And so what we're going to see is that David was a man of expression of emotion experientially.
Experiencing life is full of these kinds of expressions of emotions, motions of joy, caution, of an even fear.
Some of you might be facing some of these right now.
David was a man like this, and he wrote Psalm 23 out of his own experiences.
We have to understand that this was real life to David when he wrote the Psalms.
Psalm 23 is written in this context.
We want to understand that context.
I've titled this second message in our series, how to be sure of your shepherd.
You need to be sure that God is your shepherd.
You need to be sure that he cares for you, that he's concerned about you, that he's walking with you, that he's involved in your life, that he sees what you're going through, how to be sure of your shepherd.
Psalm 23 verse one, what's it say?
Can we say it out loud?
The Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want.
How can we be sure of anything?
How can you be sure that that chair is going to hold you up?
Right?
You stopped at Dunkin' Donuts, had that Boston cream on the way to church, right?
And you're thinking, oh, I got way too many pounds here.
It might not hold me up.
How do you know and be sure that your car is going to bring you home safely?
How do you know and are sure or assured of that your health is going to be good in the coming year?
How do you know anything for sure or anyone for sure?
In the area of salvation, this is called the doctrine of assurance.
I was talking to some people, many people through the years that struggle with the doctrine of assurance, that they are truly born again, that they know Jesus, that Jesus knows them, that they walk with God, they lack the doctrine of assurance.
We are to be sure, the Apostle John said, that we have this hope within us.
And so if you're someone that battles with assurance or being sure of your shepherd, then I pray that today's message will help you to get to a better place of being sure of your shepherd.
Are you ready?
The doctrine of assurance or being sure.
I have doubted God's presence in my life through my pain often, often.
More in the earlier years of my Christian life.
And what we're going to see in the life of David is something that transformed him.
That's why he could write Psalm 23 1.
He had to go through some things to get to that place as I have and you have.
The devil wants us to doubt that God really has saved us and made us his own, that we are truly the sheep of his pasture.
And David had to wrestle out some of these same struggles that you and I do.
And to get to the place of understanding God as a sure shepherd, then we have to go to places that David went to.
We're going to have to get into his life as recorded in the scripture, understand what he was going through.
And then out of that, how was he able to say, the Lord is my shepherd, I shall not want.
There are two areas I want to look at with you, conflicts and crises.
Where are some of the conflicts that David struggled with?
Where are some of the crises that David went through?
Again, here's the secret.
Let's walk with him for a moment.
Would you go with me?
To do that, we're going to have to go to some things that David experienced, and you're going to follow me with that.
I'm sure you will.
To 1 Samuel chapter 18.
1 Samuel 18.
You're saying, is that in the New Testament?
Where is 1 Samuel?
That's in our Old Testament.
Let's go to 1 Samuel chapter 18.
I want to look at verses 1 down to verse 12 with you.
I'm going to do a commentary on this, make some thoughts, and we'll see what was happening in the life of David in the area of conflict.
Maybe you'll find yourself here in some way.
1 Samuel chapter 18 verse 1, the Bible says, as soon as he had finished speaking to Saul.
You remember King Saul?
The son of Jonathan was knit to his soul, the soul of David, and Jonathan loved him as his own soul.
Verse 2, and Saul took him that day.
Would not let him return to his father's house, then Jonathan made a covenant with David.
because he loved him as his own soul.
What a relationship the both of them had.
Some people think that it was homosexuality.
Believe it or not, can you imagine that interpretation?
It's evil.
It's wrong interpretation.
This is a very close, bonded friendship that these two men had.
Verse 4, Jonathan stripped himself of the robe that was on him and gave it to David.
And his armor and even his sword and his bow and his belt.
And David went out and was successful wherever Saul sent him, so that Saul sent him over the men of war.
And this was good in the sight of all the people and also in the sight of Saul's servants.
Verse six, and as they were coming home when David returned from striking down the Philistine, the women came out of all the cities of Israel singing and dancing to meet King Saul.
Picture this situation here where all of these people are celebrating the victories and these women come and it says that he came to meet with dancing King Saul.
Can you imagine what was going through the mind of King Saul at that moment?
This is great.
He's feeling really good at this point, right?
Since they had tambourine songs of joy with musical instruments and the women came saying to one another as they celebrated, Saul has struck down his thousands and David, his ten thousands.
All of a sudden, what happens to King Saul?
Not so good.
Right?
Well, what happens to him?
Verse 8, and Saul was very angry.
And this saying displeased to me, said, they have ascribed to David 10,000.
And to me, they have ascribed thousands.
And what more can he have but the kingdom?
And saw I, David, from that day on.
Listen, when somebody eyes you from that day on, you're going to understand conflict like you've never understood it before.
And you're saying, what do you mean?
Well, Saul was jealous of David.
This is what happened.
And so from that day on, for almost 20 years, Saul would pursue David to try to kill him.
There are going to be people in conflicts in our world where people are going to come against you.
They're going to eye you a certain way.
Have we gotten an eye from somebody?
This is very interesting.
Now, after church, after our service, you're going to be like looking at everybody, looking for the eye, right, the stink eye.
I call it the stink eye.
And so they're going to give you the up and down.
They're going to give you the left and right, right?
And they're not going to do it to encourage you.
They're going to do it because inside of their heart they look at you and they're jealous of your look, of your confidence,
of your success, of your position.
And from that day on, that relationship between you and them could potentially erupt into something very similar to King Saul and David.
This isn't just something that they would have experienced.
You're thinking, that's not going to touch my life.
It's going to touch your life.
Trust me.
It shouldn't happen, but it does.
David is in a conflict here that lasted a long
long time.
He was stalked by King Saul.
At times David would live in caves.
I did a series many years ago called Caved Wellers.
We all have to learn how to live in caves at times.
That's a hard place to live when you're being pursued by someone that's threatened by you, jealous of you.
They want to take you down, take you out.
Well, a lot of this has to do with our response.
Now, this is important.
So this conflict is then in David's life.
It's going to be in our life in various forms.
Maybe not this severe, but it's going to be in our lives.
And the choices that we then make in reaction to something like this is very important.
Go to chapter 24 for Samuel.
Here's the situation that David has put to the test.
And all along, David's learning how to be shepherded by God.
And this is how it happens.
It happens in our conflicts.
If you're going to look for a life of ease that has no conflict, and I'm not saying you bring it on yourself, I'm just saying that if you're living for Jesus and you're following Him close, there's going to be some conflict.
But all of that is used of the Lord to help us to understand that He shepherds us in the middle of all of that.
I don't even know if we can learn the shepherding heart of God if we don't go through conflict and crises.
Well, here's something that David is experiencing here in verses one to seven that his reaction is very important as yours is and mine is when this happens to us.
When Saul returned from following the Philistines, verse one, he was told behold, David is in the wilderness of Engedi.
Then Saul took 3,000 chosen men out of all of Israel and went to seek David and his men in front of the wild goats rocks.
And he came to the sheepfold by the way where there was a cave and Saul went in to relieve himself.
Okay, basically he's going in to go number two.
That's what's happening.
Because I know some people are thinking, what's going on here?
Let's just lay it out there, right?
So he goes in there and he's gonna relieve himself, go to the bathroom, and he's in this cave.
And David's in the cave with his men, right?
This is what he goes on to say, notice now, David and his men were sitting in the innermost parts of the cave.
And the men of David said to him, here's the day in which the Lord said to you, behold, I will give your enemy into your hand.
And you shall do to him, fully cut off a corner of Saul's robe.
And afterwards, David's heart struck him because he had cut off a corner of Saul's robe.
And he said to his men, the Lord forbid that I should do this thing to my Lord.
And the Lord's anointed to put out my hand against him, seeing he is the Lord's anointed.
Here's the thing.
David could have killed him.
He's that close.
Saul would have never known what hit him.
And so David's that close.
He cuts off just a corner of the robe, but he holds back in the middle of his conflict, being chased and stalked by King Saul.
He could have ended it.
Listen, when you're in a conflict, you're going to be brought to a decision if you could end it in your own strength, or you could stay within the sheepfold of God and understand that he's your shepherd, that you're not your deliverer, you're not your own shepherd, but God is your shepherd.
So you're not going to learn the shepherding skills of God or the heart of God if you're just taking matters into your own hands and you're trying to control everything.
David could have done that, but he doesn't.
He pulls back and he realizes that King Saul is the anointed.
That doesn't mean King Saul had the anointing.
His anointing was gone.
Who had the anointing?
David did.
So David doesn't have the position, but he has the anointing.
Saul has the position, but no anointing.
What would you rather have?
Think about that.
You're going to fight for a position.
You're going to fight for your rights.
You're going to fight for things that you think you deserve.
And God's going to say, no, no, no, no.
You're going to lose the annoying thing.
You're going to try to position yourself in the middle of your conflict to save yourself.
And God's saying, no, you can't save yourself.
I'm going to save you.
I'm your shepherd.
I'm going to protect you.
Do you see how David was learning all of this?
Then he gets to Psalm 23.
The Lord is my shepherd.
I shall not want.
What choices do you have to make?
Today, what choices do you have to make?
Are you going to retaliate?
Are you going to bring revenge upon that person that has come against you?
Or are you going to release that to the Lord?
Let Him shepherd that situation.
He can do so much better than we can, right?
Anybody ever messed up because you got in the way?
We've got a confession corner over here.
Everybody over here is like confessing.
Over here, it's awfully quiet.
Let's work on that.
All right.
So we got conflict.
And sometimes you're going to think, oh, Lord, I don't know if I can go another day.
David didn't know how long it was going to last.
He didn't know it was going to go 20 years out.
Can you imagine that?
Have you ever been in a place where you're like, Lord, I don't know if I can go another week with this?
But we have our Bibles.
And we can look back and go out.
David lasted 20 years.
What was it for Joseph?
I think it was 13 years.
He was going through a whole lot of conflict there.
And then God raised them up.
You're gonna have to go through that.
I'm gonna have to go through that.
This is conflict.
This is how God does it.
Let's look briefly at crises.
And after this, I wanna give just three application principles out of Psalm 23, one, we'll go back to the Psalm in a moment, but let's look at crises in David's life.
Psalm 28, let's go over there.
Psalm 28.
This is a crises Psalm.
It's here that David learns to listen for the voice of God,
Oh, so many people have asked, how do you hear the voice of God?
I'll say that.
I don't know if I've said it much here.
Maybe I haven't, I just didn't know.
But the voice of the Lord is a precious voice and we need to be able to hear it.
And people have asked, so how do you, why do you say it like that?
What is the voice of God?
I can't hear the voice of God.
What are you talking about?
You know, you sound like one of those wacky Christians.
The voice of the Lord is very, very important to be able to hear.
Jesus said in John chapter 10, my sheep, what?
Here.
My what?
My voice.
And they do what after that?
They follow.
It's important to hear the voice of the Lord.
He's your shepherd.
Very important.
But in the midst of Christ, let's talk a little bit about this.
You'll see an image on the screen.
It's conflict and crisis.
They're used interchangeably in most people's vocabulary, but there is a distinction.
I just want to mention that distinction just briefly.
A conflict is where two or more at odds of some kind are.
Two or more people are at odds.
This is Saul and David conflict.
We have him in our lives on this earth.
It happens.
Crisis is different.
It's a situation that poses an immediate threat or danger.
Let me show you what's going on here.
And so I'm 28, just briefly.
Oh, David, this is David's again writing to you.
Oh, Lord, I call my rock.
Do not be deaf to me.
Lest I, if you be silent to me, I become like those who go down to the pit.
Here are the voices of my pleas for mercy.
When I cry to you for help, when I lift up my hands toward your most holy sanctuary.
This is a psalm of crises.
This is a man who cries out to God.
This is a man who's coming to God and he's saying, oh God, don't be deaf.
Hear the cry.
Hear the plea of my heart.
If you don't hear me and respond to me, I don't know what's gonna happen to me.
I don't know if I can even stand it one more day.
It's a little bit of a prayer phrase, verse three.
Do not drag me off with the wicked, with the workers of evil who speak peace with their neighbors while evil's in their hearts.
Give to them according to their work and according to the evil of their deed that's an imprecatory prayer.
Some of the prayers of Psalms are imprecatory.
You pray against someone.
There is a place for imprecatory praying.
And so he goes on, render them their due reward because they do not regard the works of the Lord or the works of His hands.
He will tear them down and build them up no more.
Blessed be the Lord for he has heard the voice of my please for mercy.
The Lord is my strength and my shield.
What we singing about this?
It's beautiful in him, my heart trusts and I am helped.
My heart exalts and with my song, I give thanks to him.
The Lord is the strength of his people.
He is the saving refuge of his anointed.
Oh, save your people and bless your heritage.
Be there shepherd and carry them.
For how does he say that with such confidence?
Because he's learned.
He's learned in the midst of conflict and crises that God shepherds him.
You take away conflict and crises out of our life.
I don't know if we're going to get to that place.
So wherever you're at in your world today, this Lord's day, I would encourage you to embrace it.
Embrace it.
Say, Lord, help me to receive all that you have.
Help me to hear your voice.
Help me to experience you, Lord.
Teach me your ways.
Can you see David in the caves of Adelom?
This is what's going on.
He understands how to dwell in a cave.
Now, I'm not much for the tiny house.
I love watching tiny house.
You ever seen those?
And I'm looking at that boy that's nicely done.
But if you got me into a tiny house, I'd probably go berserk.
It's too small.
I wouldn't know how to live in a tiny house.
And so living in a cave is going to be challenging.
But you're going to have to learn how to do that, like David did.
Well, let me show you something to Christ, these that happens in David's life.
If you want to go back to 1 Samuel, now look at chapter 19.
Should have had you put your finger back there, because you're thinking, oh, I'm going back to the index.
Now I got to try to find it.
Look at my Bible tab.
I wish I had those in my Bible.
Oh, no.
1 Samuel 19.
Watch this.
I gave you the definition of situation that poses an immediate threat or danger.
1 Samuel 19, you'll see that.
This is where God saves David and he does it over and over again.
He got this King Saul that's jealous and threatened of him, comes after him over and over and over again, and God just keeps rescuing him.
And when God rescues you enough times, you're going to start realizing he's shepherding me.
This is my shepherd.
He rescues me.
He saves me.
You see, we think of salvation in terms of when we got born again.
But did you know that you've been saved over and over and over again?
Not in the area of salvation and being born again, but deliverance.
See that word is a good word, not just for born again, but you're being delivered all the while.
That's what grace is.
Grace is keeping us from here to heaven.
That's why I believe in what is called as perseverance of the saints, preservation of the saints.
There's always a big debate about that.
Can you lose your salvation or can you not?
I land heavy on the preservation of the saints because in the gospel, which is indestructible,
You have a gospel that is complete and perfect.
It comes inside of our lives that faith that's been given by God, supernaturally, miraculously through the gift of repentance, then becomes sanctification all the way to glorification.
This is Romans.
He's going to shepherd you from that day all the way.
He will not fail you.
You're going to think that he failed you at times, but he never fails his own.
Never.
Notice right here, this is an amazing situation.
What I say, 1 Samuel 19, verse 1, and Saul spoke to Jonathan, his son, into all his servants, and that they should kill David.
But Jonathan, Saul, son, delighted much in David.
And Jonathan told David, Saul, my father seeks to kill you.
Not nice.
Therefore, be on your guard in the morning, stay in the secret place, and hide yourself.
And I will go out and stand beside my father in the field where you are.
And I'll speak to my father about you.
And if I learn anything,
I will tell you."
And Jonathan spoke well of David to saw his father and said to him, but not the king sinned against his servant David because he has not sinned against you and because his deeds have brought good to you.
For he took his life in his hand and he struck down the Philistine and the Lord worked a great salvation for all Israel.
You saw it and rejoiced.
Why then will you sin against innocent blood by killing David without cause?
What is the cause for King Saul?
Jealousy and Envyen.
and all of that stuff inside.
Verse six, Saul listened to the voice of Jonathan, Saul swore as the Lord lives.
He shall not be put to death.
And Jonathan called David and Jonathan reported to him all these things.
And Jonathan brought David to Saul and he was in his presence as before.
And there was war again.
And David went out and fought with the Philistines and struck them with a great blow so that they fled before him.
Then a harmful spirit from the Lord came upon Saul as he sat in his house and with his spear in his hand.
And David was playing the liar.
and Saul sought to pin David to the wall with a spear, but he eluded Saul so that he struck the spear into the wall, and David fled and escaped that night over and over again.
David would escape.
But here's Saul trying to kill him, trying to end his life.
And when God rescues you, think about that.
If you weren't a burning building and somebody rescued you, a firefighter or someone else, how would you feel towards that person?
Right, you would steam them highly, be so thankful and so grateful for that.
Well, when God rescues you over and over and over again, then you're going to understand that God is the God who protects you that looks over you.
Remember last Lord's Day?
I titled the message, the pastoral psalm, like God is our pastor.
Did you know that?
I don't know if you've ever thought similar thoughts like that.
It might be new in your own mind.
But the ultimate pastor that you're ever going to have is gone.
Shepherd, point men in the New Testament, right?
Roah in the Old Testament Hebrew.
That means shepherd.
And what a shepherd does is protects the parent.
And so that's why God is referred to as Abba what?
Father, because he's going to shepherd you, protect you, lead you, feed you, care for you, be concerned about you.
This is what parents do.
You do that for your children, don't you?
You shepherd them.
I told you that last week.
Past your dad.
Where's her dad's in the room?
Raise your hand.
Yeah, raise your hand, dads.
How about future dads?
You're like, yeah, that'd be awesome.
You're going to be pastor.
You're the pastor of the family.
Be an awesome pastor.
You'll protect them.
You'll take care of them.
I remember when I was young, very young.
There was a couple of guys that were like King Saul in my life.
And I was just a little guy and these were much older teenagers.
I mean, when you're young, a guy in junior, a junior in high school or senior in high school will feel like they're ancient, like they're grown-ups.
And I was just a little guy in junior high.
And Richard Jackson, Manuel Rivera, would torment me daily.
Like they would find me in the park
and terrorized me and my friends.
I can still remember it like it was yesterday.
They had these big afros.
I mean, their hair was like this.
Now, that's popular today, right?
It's coming back.
But back in the day, when they were riding their bikes, their afro would be blown in the wind, you know?
And that fear inside of my heart was terrifying.
I can remember him, Richard Jackson, who was much larger than me.
And I'm looking up.
He took a football and just like bangs it right in front of my face.
I couldn't go to my own park to play basketball or do anything because those guys were always around.
I remember they chased me home one day.
And I ran up on the porch of our house.
And even who came out?
My mom.
And she's like this tall.
She's not like a hobbit or anything.
But she's an Italian woman, 100% Italian.
You don't mess with 100% Italian women, especially when their kid is being
harassed and stalked and terrorized and she comes out and Manuel and Richard Jackson are looking at her the blankety blank blankety blank cussing at my mom and my mom scared them off I couldn't believe it they took off never bothered me ever again that's what a parent does my mom was shepherding me my dad was shepherding me this is what we do I want to look at application really quickly with you and
I'm waiting to go to Psalm 23.1 because in this psalm, in these individual words, you're going to see something I hope you'll apply, not just for today, but this week, this month, and the rest of your Christian life.
Psalm 23.1, notice.
Number one, you'll see it on the screen.
Be certain, remain certain of his sovereignty.
There's number one, or letter A, remain certain of his sovereignty.
This is, look at the little phrase there.
The Lord is, that's all I want to go, just right there.
The Lord is, can we say that out loud?
The Lord is, that is certainty in David's life.
How?
Conflict crisis.
You saw God shepherd him in the middle of conflict and crisis.
All of that.
Now he's able to say, the Lord is Yahweh, self-existent in nature.
This is what he's saying when he uses the word Lord there.
In the New Testament, it's Adonai, which means ruler or almighty.
So what is David saying here?
He's saying that God is sovereign over all.
How did he learn such a thing?
Well, he learned it in the pits, in the prisons.
He learned it in the valleys.
This is where you learn this kind of thing.
You learn that God is in control when you realize you're not in control.
But if you want to stay in control of your own life, you will miss this truth.
You are not sovereign over your own life.
God is ruler.
And we bow before him and we say, you're the king.
I follow you.
And he wants all of that to be developed in us so that we can say the Lord is.
Can you say that this morning?
I'm not telling you just to repeat it in your mind.
I'm saying, is it conviction inside of your heart?
Because you know in those dark times, when those thoughts are racing, when you feel like your life is out of control,
that God has shown up, that God has shown Himself true and righteous and altogether lovely.
The Lord is, He is the ruler of my life.
He is sovereign.
This is how we got there.
Oh, don't, don't reject the conflicts in your life.
Don't reject the crises in your life.
What has moved you away from this certainty?
Where have you gone?
Why did you drift?
Why did you turn away?
Come back.
The Lord is, here's letter B.
Letter B, remain committed to a shepherding.
The Lord is, what's the next word?
My.
This is commitment.
David is dripping onto his God.
I love this.
I love the woman who came and she fell.
She broke through the crowd.
Remember her?
She's breaking through the crowd and then she comes to Jesus' feet and she... Can you believe there are people in that crowd?
What's she doing?
Can you imagine grabbing ahold of like literally the feet of Jesus' ankles?
Have you ever tried doing that figuratively?
I would encourage you.
Just picture yourself falling at his feet and just grabbing a hold of his ankles and saying, you're the shepherd.
You're the one that I've always wanted, ever needed.
Commitment is decision-making.
This is what this is.
You make a decision to be committed to his shepherding over your life.
Let her see, remain contented with this supply.
I shall not want, in that phrase, I shall not want, remain content.
with how he has supplied for you.
Philippians 4.19, you'll see it on the screen here, the Apostle Paul told the Corinthians, or the Philippian believers, if you could bring that up, my God will supply every need of yours.
Every need, circle that, if you can in your mind, or in your Bible, you have a pencil or something, I learned, every need of yours according to his riches and glory in Christ Jesus.
Now, that word according is a very important word there, when you're trying to understand that verse.
Now, if God had a buck 50 in his bank account,
Wow, that would be troublesome.
How would that be according to about 50?
There'd be enough maybe for me, but nothing for you.
That little word's important because God is perfect in righteousness, but He's also perfectly rich.
And I'm not talking about money.
So if it's according to how rich God is, then all of my needs will be supplied.
He wants to shepherd all of my needs, and He will shepherd all of my needs.
This is what he does.
But we are so bombarded with marketing today.
Oh, the marketing is out there.
You need this.
You need that.
There's 40 different kinds of hair gel and shampoo and toothpaste.
And now you gotta, it's just ridiculous.
And you get all that coming into your mind over and over and over again.
You're gonna feel like you're always lacking something.
Do you know we don't lack anything in Christ?
Nothing.
I have everything I need.
I don't need anything more than Jesus.
I remember early on in our lives when at least when I got married and finances were tight, super tight.
And so we were praying, oh God help us, help us, you know.
And we're learning shepherding, the shepherding skills of God.
And so one day there was a knock at our door and we went to the door of our apartment.
And there were chicken nuggets, fries, and root beer that somebody had left at the doorstep.
It was wonderful, the provisioned supply of God.
He was just showing that he's going to take care of all of our needs.
That was early on, like the first couple of years of our marriage.
It's been 36 now, I think, right?
36 right now?
There we go.
First Timothy 6, 6 and 7, I have it on the screen.
I'm going to bring it to a close here.
It says this, but godliness with contentment is great gain.
Let's be content.
For we brought nothing into the world and we cannot take anything out of it.
If you notice the phrase there, but godliness with contentment, some people are like, well, how do I get to contentment?
If you've gotten to contentment, you're dealing with some really deep godliness or maturity.
In other words, as we mature, you get to contentment.
I don't know if it's possibly truly content without godliness.
I think they both go together.
Godliness is Eusebia.
Eusebia is the word that means that your whole life is like vertical, your whole life is
Every part of your life is devoted.
The way you think, how you speak, your attitude, your actions, your results of your decision-making, your will, that kind of thing.
Godliness encompasses all of it, a totality.
The totality of who I am exudes God as the center of my life.
That's eusabia.
That's godliness.
Godliness with contentment.
You're not going to get to contentment unless you're growing and maturing in godliness.
Does that make sense?
So if you're struggling with discontent, you're probably also struggling with godliness somewhere.
That's something we have to look at.
Keep growing in godliness.
Here's Hebrews 13, 5.
It also says, keep your life free from the love of money and be content with what you have.
For he has said, what's that word?
The next word under there.
I can't see it.
Well, he will never leave you nor forsake you, right?
We can be sure of our shepherd, the assurance,
is developed in the deep waters and weeds of life.
When you're stuck in your feeling, life is overwhelming you.
This was David's experience.
Remember, David's a man.
He's a man.
He's human.
And he struggles in conflict and crises.
This will take some time through the trials.
I want to encourage you to keep trusting the Lord.
Don't give up.
Don't turn away.
Life will be full of trouble as the sparks fly upwards."
Do you know what book that came out of?
What Bible book?
That's Job.
Job said that.
It's a guarantee.
God is going to supply all of your needs.
We are His sheep.
We're the sheep of His pasture.
Here's a certain of sovereignty.
You'll see it on the screen.
Just basic, application truths.
Be certain of His sovereignty.
Be committed or remain committed to His shepherding over your life.
be contented with his supply in your life.
And then you'll be able to say with confidence, the Lord is my shepherd.
I shall not want.
Amen.
Just want to mention as we read Psalm 23, we did this out loud.
I want to encourage us to end with this again.
We're going to try to memorize six verses.
Can we try to do that in the next five weeks?
But I'm going to read it out loud.
Now, some of you might be aware of the event that happened
in Nashua at Sky Meadows, our conference center, Gulf Club, their country club, rather, a very, very traumatic loss of life much happened yesterday.
I just found out this morning.
And so, so relevant to have a message on how God shepherds us in conflict and in crises.
And there's a very real crisis that is affecting many, many lives
just thankful for the first responders that did their job yesterday, but it was tragic.
And so some of you might be aware of that, some of you might not be aware of that.
But we need to pray for those connected to that.
We need to pray for Nashua, the city of Nashua, and how traumatizing that is, and really for our world.
So let's read the Psalm, and then I'm gonna lead in that prayer for all of these things I just mentioned.
You ready?
Out loud, let's begin.
The Lord is my shepherd.
I shall not want.
He makes me lie down in green pastures.
He leads me beside still waters.
He restores my soul.
He leads me in paths of righteousness for his namesake.
And even though I walk through the valley of the shadow of death, I will fear no evil.
For you are with me.
Your rod and your staff, they comfort me.
You prepare a table before me in the presence of my enemies.
You anoint my head with oil, my cup overflows.
Surely goodness and mercy shall follow me all the days of my life, and I shall dwell in the house of the Lord forever.
We have great confidence, Lord, that you are in fact the greatest shepherd, you're the true shepherd, even in the midst of trauma, trials, and turbulent times.
Conflicts and crises, we lay before you, Lord, because we know that even in these seasons of life,
is difficult and as tragic as they are.
You can still be trusted.
You are still on the throne.
You have never left.
You are in control.
We do intercede for the city of Nashua, for those who are in the middle of all of that tragic, traumatic circumstances surrounding what happened yesterday.
You are the one God that we turn to, to bring peace that passes understanding.
Lord, someday we will know more than what we know.
We just see in a glass dimly through a glass.
It's so blurry at times.
But we pray, Lord, that you would reveal yourself in power, that you would show that you are true and faithful and good and altogether righteous, that people will see the goodness of the Lord and the land of the living.
But God, we say to you, it's hard when there's loss of life.
It's hard when someone is no longer with us because of some decision of evil that was made.
And so, oh God, we just, again, release that to you.
We trust you with this situation, Lord, that you would bring the comfort to those that need great comfort this morning.
We pray, Lord, that you would help us to realize more and more that you're the shepherd of our soul.
We want to be like David.
The Lord is my shepherd.
I shall not want.
We just say that we love you, Lord.
We love you.
In Jesus' mighty name.
Amen.
You are left.
Thanks for listening to the Crossway Christian Church's Middleford Campus sermon podcast.
If you'd like to plug into the life of our community or have any questions that we might be able to answer, visit our website at CrosswayCC.org to connect with us.
Until next time, we can be with you.
May the Lord bless you and keep you.